What is WebGL?
I keep saying WebGL, so Web GL stands for
Web Graphics Library sort of,
it's a browser implementation of OpenGL,
which is Open Graphics Library.
And OpenGL is this decade's old software
that's been around since the early 90s.
And it's just been iterating and
incrementing its versions ever since.
It's this really old school tech, and so
WebGL is basically just a port of this,
and so WebGL itself is also
kind of feels old-school.
If you actually use
the raw WebGL commands,
it's just the commands
that exists from OpenGL.
And OpenGL is what drives games and
graphics engines, and any type
of rendering that you'd see in like
a software, especially if it's on a Mac or
Linux, there's a very good
chance that it's using OpenGL.
On Windows, you might more often be
seeing something that's using DirectX.
And this example, Doom (2016), this was
using OpenGL to render a lot of these
effects, explosions triangles,
lighting, such and such.
And so when we think of WebGL,
we often think of 3D,
we think of these kind
of like virtual worlds.
But really, WebGL just allows
us to take advantage of our GPU.
That's really all WebGL
is allowing us to do.
And so we can render things that are 2D.
We can also use WebGL to produce
very complex computation.
So it might just be like a really complex
algorithm that runs on the GPU and
doesn't even have anything visual.
It's not like a game or a data
visualization, or anything like that.
It's just using the GPU for its parallel
nature, that's all WebGL really is.
And so GLSL, GLSL is a language,
it's a programming language or
a shader language,
specifically designed for OpenGL.
And so because GLSL works with OpenGL,
it also works with WebGL.
And it looks like this, so this is GLSL.
And it's just a programming
language like I'm saying, and
it's these little tiny programs that we
write that then get compiled onto the GPU.
And they run really, really fast on
the GPU, they run in parallel, and so
you can have this sort of program and
it might run 10,000 times or
1 million times in a single frame.
It's really, really, really fast and
it's mind blowing how fast it is when
you actually compile these onto the GPU.
And so it's not JavaScript,
it doesn't really look like JavaScript.
It has some, there's functions, there's
variables, but it's all different syntax.
And so you actually have to type like
include types for the variables.
So whether it's float, or
whether it's an integer, or
whether it's one of these
things called a vec2 or a vec3.
So GLSL, because it's designed around
triangles and around graphics, it includes
some data types that are really useful for
3D programming like vector types.
In JavaScript,
it actually looks like this, so
when we include GLSL in our JavaScript
programs, we end up just using a string.
In this case,
I'm using a multi-line template string,
that just makes it really easy
to write out a full shader.
But when we're gonna be going today,
we're gonna either do it but
this way with template strings,
or alternatively,
you can include your entire
shader in a different file.
And I'm going to show you how we can
require that file into a program,
rather than having to write
it all just as a string.
And then Three.js,
that sits atop both of these things,
so Three.js sits atop the WebGL and GLSL.
And it sort of combines these two
things into a very simple and
easy to use interface.
And so you can do things like load 3D
models and select different materials,
different built-in geometries.
It's a very user friendly framework, and
it's really allowing you to
do all sorts of 3D things.
It can also be used for 2D but
typically we use it for 3D.
But it certainly has the capabilities
because it is ultimately just
allowing us to do things with the GPU,
we could use it for 2D games or
even like a 2.5D game that might not
be fully 3D, it might not be fully 2D.